how will distribute vaccines when they
eventually become okay Nick thank you
for that mate we're going to go straight
to a number ten Alec Sharma is about to
lead the conference good afternoon I'm
joined today by the government's chief
scientific adviser Sir Patrick valance
and dr. Yvonne Doyle who is the medical
director of public health England before
I talk about some decisions taken today
and Sir Patrick provides an update on
the latest data I'd like to set out the
steps we are taking to defeat
coronavirus our step-by-step action plan
is aiming to slow the spread of the
virus so fewer people need hospital
treatment at any one time protecting the
NHS ability to cope at each point we
have been following scientific and
medical advice and we have been
deliberate in our actions taking the
right steps at the right time we are
also taking unprecedented action to
increase NHS capacity but dramatically
expanding the number of beds key staff
and life-saving equipment on the
frontline to give people the care they
need when they need it most
this is why we are instructing people to
stay at home so we can protect our NHS
and save lives I can report that through
the government's ongoing monitoring and
testing programme as of today a total of
four hundred and thirty eight thousand
nine hundred and ninety-one people in
the UK have now been tested for
coronavirus that includes 21,000 328
tests carried out yesterday of those a
hundred and eight thousand six hundred
and ninety two people have tested
positive that is an increase of five
thousand five hundred and ninety nine
cases since yesterday eighteen thousand
nine hundred and seventy eight people
are currently in hospital that
coronavirus in the UK and sadly of those
hospitalized with the virus 14 thousand
five hundred and seventy-six have now
died that is an increase of 800
47 fatalities since yesterday we must
never forget that behind every statistic
is a family member or a friend and all
our thoughts and prayers are with the
families and loved ones of those who
have lost their lives
these figures are a powerful reminder to
us all of the importance of following
the government's guidance and as a
foreign secretary outlined yesterday the
current social distancing measures will
remain in place for at least the next
three weeks and there are five tests
that must be satisfied before we will
consider it safe to adjust any of the
current measures first we must protect
the Energy's ability to cope we must be
confident that we are able to provide
sufficient critical care and specialist
treatment right across the UK second we
need to see a sustained and consistent
fall in the daily death rate from
coronavirus so we can be confident that
we have moved beyond the peak third we
need to have reliable data from Sage
showing that the rate of infection is
decreasing to manageable levels across
the board fourth we need to be confident
that the range of operational challenges
including testing capacity and PPP PPE
are in hand with supply able to meet
future demand fifth and most importantly
we need to be confident that any
adjustments to the current measures will
not risk a second peak of infections
that overwhelm the NHS the worst thing
we could do now is ease up too soon and
allow a second peak of the virus to hit
the NHS and hit the British people so I
want to thank each and every person
across the UK who is following and
supporting the government's advice to
stay at home in order that we protect
our NHS and ultimately save lives I know
we are asking you to make sacrifices and
it is challenging but we need two key
going working together we will defeat
this invisible enemy but now is not the
time to let up the risks still persists
not only for yourselves but for the
people around you so we must stay
vigilant but of course the point we hope
to get to one of the ways that we can
defeat this virus is to find a vaccine
justice Edward Jenner developed the
smallpox vaccine in the 18th century we
need to apply the best of British
scientific endeavor to the search for
the corona virus vaccine to that end I
can announce today that the government
has set up a vaccines task force to
coordinate the efforts of government
academia and Industry towards a single
goal to accelerate the development of a
corona virus vaccine this task force is
up and running and aims to ensure that a
vaccine is made available to the public
as quickly as possible
the task force reporting to me and the
Health Secretary is led by Sir Patrick
and Professor Jonathan phantom it
comprises representatives from
government industry academia and
regulators members include government
life sciences champions Sir John Bell as
well as Astra Zeneca and the Wellcome
Trust the task force will support
progress across all stages of vaccine
development and at pace it will back
Britain's most promising research
positioning the UK as a leader in
clinical vaccine testing and
manufacturing the task force will
coordinate with regulators to facilitate
trials which are both rapid and well
supervised and it will work with
industry in the UK and internationally
so we're in a position to manufacture
vaccines at scale this will build on the
Prime Minister's announcement last month
of a further 210 million pounds force
EPI the International Fund to find a
vaccine
I can confirm that the government has
green-lighted a further 21 research
projects to help fight coronavirus in
total these projects will receive 14
million pounds from the twenty five
million pound government research
investment and include backing the
development of a vaccine at Imperial
College London this follows support for
six projects announced last month
including vaccine development led by
Professor Sarah Gilbert at the
University of Oxford Jenner Institute
this is already carrying out preclinical
trials and with government support will
shortly move to a clinical trial phase
and we're looking forward so when we do
make a breakthrough we are ready to
manufacture by the millions one tool in
this fight will be the UK's first
vaccines manufacturing Innovation Center
based in Harwell a project that will
help build our capacity to develop and
mass-produce vaccines in here in the UK
the government will be accelerating the
building of this facility the
bioindustry association is also working
closely with our task force and bringing
together a whole range of businesses
keen to use their expertise to
mass-produce vaccines as soon as one is
ready I want to pay heartfelt tribute to
all the sciences and researchers working
tirelessly on these projects yet even
with all their efforts we should be
under no illusions producing a vaccine
is a colossal undertaking a complex
process which will take many months
there are no guarantees but the
government is backing our scientists
betting big to maximize the chance of
success and I'm proud of how again and
again Britain has stepped up and
answered the call to action an enormous
challenge being tackled through a vast
national effort we're problem solvers
from science business and government
joined forces to beat this invisible
killer we cannot put a date on when we
will get a vaccine but we live
a country with a rich history of
pioneering science and with the
government backing our scientists we
have the best chance to do this as
quickly as possible first slide please
so you've seen this before this is the
slide of transport use you can see the
dip in transport and using all vehicles
over Easter that's come back we remain
very well placed in terms of the efforts
that everyone has made to try and reduce
their contacts there is one point that I
just want to make here though which is
when we look right the way across the
country there is a little bit of
unevenness particularly in some areas
where there haven't been many cases of
the disease yet and I would just urge
everybody in every area to really apply
the social distancing measures that are
in place and don't think just because
you haven't seen it near where you are
it may not be there it's very important
we all do it next slide please
this shows the cases now as I've said
repeatedly this doesn't clearly show all
the cases it shows the cases that have
been tested the blue bars are the ones
of patients in hospital you'd expect
this to bump up and down a bit depending
on the number of tests done and you can
see this has become flat over the last
few days and we would expect this to
start decreasing in terms of total
number of cases the orange bars show the
number of critical care workers that
have been tested and you'd expect as the
number of tests go up that this orange
bar will go up a little bit over time
the next slide please
is the most important that really shows
what's happening in terms of the number
of patients in hospital beds and here
you can see a gradual decrease in London
a flattening in most other areas some
decreases in some other areas as well
this is exactly what you'd expect from
the social distancing measures that
we've all taken beginning to feed
through into the number of patients
in hospital and in turn the number of
patients in intensive care units it's
here also that some of the work that's
already underway not in vaccines but in
treatments is really beginning to take
hold I heard this afternoon that the
studies that are underway in the UK have
now enrolled over five and a half
thousand people in clinical trials
trying to work out whether medicines
that we've already got can work have
some effect in this disease and we
should start to get answers from these
studies over the next weeks so the
numbers are not so near to Plateau but
you're beginning to come down in some
areas and that will translate into fewer
people in intensive care in due course
but do not expect this to be quick this
is not going to be a sudden drop there
will be a plateau it will take a while
for the numbers to come right down and
that's why it's important that we
continue with the strong social
distancing measures that we have in
place and continue to do so for the next
three weeks and need to do so right the
way across the country last slide please
unfortunately as the secretary of state
has said deaths continue to can occur
from this disease 847 in the last 24
hours this is obviously a tragedy
I expect unfortunately this number to
continue at a plateau for a little while
and then to start come down slowly after
that so we are not through this yet
we're headed in the right direction the
measures that are being taken are making
a difference and you can begin to see it
in the numbers and we need to stay firm
in terms of the actions we're taking
thank you great Patrick thank you very
much for that I didn't move to the the
questions the first question is from the
BBC focus Walsh focus thank you 21,000
tests were carried out yesterday how are
you going to get to a hundred thousand
tests by the end of the month with just
13 days to go
thank you very much for that furgus so
the capacity currently is 38,000 tests
today and you will have seen further
announcement from the health secretary
in terms of testing for key workers as a
result of the capacity that is in place
we are continuing to work to make sure
that we get to that hundred thousand
tests a day by the end of the month as
you know we've now got twenty six a
testing centers in terms of dry through
testing centers two of the three super
labs that are then processing that the
swabs are up and running the third one
will be coming online shortly and of
course GSK and Astra Zeneca are also
setting one up in Cambridge so we are
doing everything we can to make sure
that we have the capacity available and
making sure that we reach that target of
100,000 tests by the end of this month I
don't know whether Thank You Secretary
of State so this has been very closely
tracked Fergus too and it is on track we
have more capacity than is being used
and I think the important thing here is
that those now in social care and other
key workers are enabled to use this
capacity we are confident that it is
there for them it's very important
particularly in social care that they do
accept the testing and getting that
organized and acceptable locally is the
next key great thank you did you want to
just come back biggest question probably
for sir Patrick which is when we do have
a vaccine how will you prioritize who
gets it first well first of all I think
we've got to get a vaccine and that
isn't two days away it's not two months
away making a vaccine is a difficult
complicated process it doesn't only have
to work it has to be safe and of course
for a disease like this it has to be
very safe if you're going to use it
right the way across the population so
there's a lot to do before we're in that
position and I think industry has
stepped up and is looking at really big
manufacturing capacity I think it's
going to be important that we vaccinate
in the way that you normally do for
these diseases which is to make sure
that the most vulnerable
did and then to roll out to wider
vaccinations but that's some way of
great figures thank you very much for
that I think next question is from ITV
Anglia Emma Hutchinson Emma yes thank
you and first of all to the Secretary of
State can I ask about the tourism
industry this morning the transport
secretary said he wouldn't be booking a
summer holiday in the East of England
the tourism industry is worth 7.5
billion pounds can you offer any hope to
that industry that there will be some
kind of summer season this year and then
to Sir Patrick the Norfolk and Norwich
hospital has opened a new surge capacity
today 170 extra beds are you still
expecting a further surge of cases in
the East of England Emma thank you very
much for that question the first thing I
want to say is that you know I speak to
businesses and business representative
organizations every day and I know how
tough it is
for a lot of businesses that is why we
have put in place the measures that we
have in terms of supporting businesses
and particularly in terms of hospitality
and leisure and retail as you know those
businesses have a business rates holiday
for a year and in fact for smaller
businesses within those sectors they're
going to get a grant and many of them
have started receive a grant of 25,000
pounds as well additionally you will
have seen today that the Chancellor has
extended the furlough scheme to the end
of June which will again help businesses
but I completely acknowledge that this
is a very tough time very many
businesses the key thing that we wanted
to do throughout this whole process is
to make sure we provide that support so
when we come out the other side and we
will come out the other side of this
those businesses are able to bounce back
because the employees are still in place
as I said I expect the numbers of cases
in the community to be coming down I
think the our value is below one across
the country that takes a while to feed
through most of the hospitals are
beginning to show some plateau of the
cases now and you'd expect the same to
go through into intensive care unit I
think the NHS has really worked very
hard to make sure they've got the extra
capacity and we said at the beginning
this is a mixture of how much demand
there's going to
b which i think is now hopefully been
damped down by the measures that are
taken and how much supply there is and
the NHS has been concentrating on
building up that supply so I think we
are much more confident that the NHS is
not going to have its capacity breached
during this period and that we are now
looking at a time when we would expect
to see a gradual decrease it may occur
at different times across the country
one final thing to say is and I've said
this before as we get decrease in the
community it's also important to
recognize that we have cases where the
are maybe above 1 in certain places like
hospitals and care homes where there is
still infection ongoing great and where
did you want to come back anything I
know you've spoken about the vaccine
today or plans for a vaccine Nadine
Doris said this week that the only way
we can exit full lockdown is with a
vaccine is that the case well what is
certainly the case is that we are taking
scientific advice from Sage and indeed
it's very important that we have done
that throughout this process and as a
result of that you would have heard
yesterday the front's actually saying
that we're extending for at least three
weeks the current measures I think you
know everyone watching this at home will
understand why we're doing that and I
want to thank that the British public
people across the UK who have responded
as at the last three weeks and you've
seen that in the stats that Sir Patrick
has been been showing us is that they
have taken the advice they are staying
at home they understand that this is
about protecting NHS and ultimately it
is about saving their lives we have put
in place I said a whole set of measures
to support business and we want to make
sure that they are able to access that
money so in terms of the grants we've
made sure that twelve point three
billion pounds is now with local
authorities the latest stats and I had a
conversation with a whole range of local
authorities yesterday 3.7 billion pounds
has been paid out to small businesses so
almost 300,000 properties have benefited
from that but we need to make sure we
accelerate that and continue to get that
support to them as I said ultimately
this about making sure that we're saving
lives
so we will always be led by the
scientific advice Thank You Emma can I
go to Sky and Thomas More Thomas thank
you
Oxford scientists behind vaccine trials
starting next week have said today that
they are so confident that it will work
that they will manufacture 1 million
doses while those trials are still
underway they hope those will be ready
for September so your state what is the
government doing to secure that supply
and then sign contracts to make sure
that Britain is at the front of the
queue for the supply of that vaccine or
any other to protect the tens of
millions of people in the UK and can
also ask so Patrick how do you balance
the rapid development of a vaccine to
save lives and exit the run day lockdown
while at the same time making sure that
it is safe so I think Thomas you're
talking about the general Institute the
work that's going on there I have spoken
in the last few days to the folks who
are who are leading that work and of
course as I said you know we we
announced last month funding for that
and we are looking to see how we can
continue to support vaccine development
in you are you actually right a key
element of this is all of course also
manufacturer that is why we have
announced that bringing forward the the
development of the the vaccine Center
but also working with the the
bioindustry as well so if I can put it
like this is that we are supportive of
the vaccines work that is going on at
Oxford at the journal Institute but also
Imperial and ultimately we are stepping
forward as required to support those
efforts but I completely get this is not
just about getting a vaccine it's also
making sure that we manufactured it in
some scale so I think they've done a
great job to get to where they are and
and and great kudos to the researchers
involved at both Oxford and in the
Imperial group and others as well there
are something like over a hundred
vaccine projects across the world at the
moment at least three are in the clinic
we think we know - for certain I think I
think three hours work third is as well
and we'll see more going into the clinic
now just to put some again realism on
backs
development each single project does not
have a high probability of success so
although everyone goes out with great
enthusiasm and we hope they work
it's never the case that you know you've
got a vaccine that's going to work so
that's the first thing that we need to
be sure of the second thing is then the
safety and it's incredibly important
that these vaccines are tested properly
that's why it takes some time to get to
the clinical trials and understand the
potential unwanted effects of a vaccine
and then only when that has been done
can this be used widely across the
population and so those are the stages
we need to go through great Thomas do
you want to come back or anything if I
may yes Britain is perceived have been
late on tests and late on ventilators we
can't surely afford to be late on
vaccines as well that would not be
reassuring for the British population
well it just to focus on on vaccines I
think that's been the the point of
setting up this task force you said that
so that there is full focus on vaccine
development but also in terms of
therapeutic treatments as well if you
look at the 27 projects that we are
backing some of apps in some our
therapeutic treatments and what I would
say to you is that as well as the work
that we are doing in the UK and the
projects we're supporting the UK we've
also put 250 million pounds into sepi
which is the international body that is
looking at this and indeed the CEO of
sepi sits on the task force as well as a
member of that so this is a
international global effort and as Sir
Patrick has said there are over a
hundred of these projects that are
online and I hope that they will deliver
success and that we will get a vaccine
as soon as possible and I think we
should just be clear the vaccine could
come from anywhere yeah you know we've
got a domestic vaccine in a discovery
program in the UK which is being
supported and absolutely sent as fast as
we can go but the vaccine could come
from anywhere
GSK and so know if you've announced
they're doing a vaccine together which
is fantastic news most of the companies
are doing vaccines this is going to come
from somewhere
we just need to back lots of horses at
the moment and to make sure we're in a
great position to access a vaccine when
it occurs and that's why organizations
like Sepi are so important as well so
sure that the world sees this as a way
to get a vaccine and we all need to be
part of the same approach to trying to
get as many vaccines as we can and you
may need more than one vaccine great
thank you very much for that Thomas
negative talk radio Charlotte Ivor's
Charlotte Thank You Secretary of State's
and last week Matt Hancock announced
that there would be investigations into
NHS workers who have sadly passed away
from Kate with 19 I'm aware that you
won't be able to give me any details on
individual cases but could I ask if
there have been any general findings
from those investigations and whether
any changes have been made in the
workplace other results yeah but what
kind of first is pay tribute to all iron
HS staff and those working in social
care settings as well and of course you
know every death is one to two many
investigations have started are ongoing
and perhaps Yvonne you might want to
comment further on this Thank You
Secretary of State so and as you say
sadly we have a number of health care
workers who have died during this
epidemic and there they deaths although
the number is relatively small each of
those deaths is important to investigate
correctly and fully and that work is
underway there is also work underway
which you may be alluding to around
certain groups perhaps in both in
patients and in the workforce who may be
more at risk and particularly the signal
that black and ethnic minorities may
carry a risk that is evident from these
signals and that work is also underway
so in both cases it's very important in
both that we actually come up with the
right answers there would be a lot of
speculation as to why people died and
what may be the factors but actually
some of these factors are quite complex
and they are being investigated
correctly and we're doing that thank you
Charlotte did you have a follow up asked
if there's a sense of when these results
and lemonade findings might start to be
coming back I know if someone who died
in my placement work I'd be very very
anxious to hear as soon as possible yes
Charlotte so not all will be
workplace deaths that's the first thing
and then importantly to investigate what
are the factors that led to death so
certainly as soon as that is clear that
will be done I think it they'll be and
they'll be investigated and then
communicated in the appropriate way at
the right time and I think it's much
more important to get this right than to
rush it but it's seen as very important
these both these investigations are very
important great thank you for that Thank
You Charlotte I think we turned to the
telegraph Gordon Rena Gordon thank you
you told the CBI earlier today that
businesses and their employees would
have to get used to a new normal and
that things won't go back to the way
they were even when the lockdown is
lifted can you explain what you mean by
new normal and are you saying that some
restrictions will have to stay in place
until there's a vaccine which as Patrick
says is a long way off yeah so well let
me talk about in terms of the the
workplace we've been very clear that we
are asking people to stay at home to
protect the NHS and save lives and very
large numbers of our population are
doing that and we've also said in terms
of work is that if you're able to work
from home you must absolutely do that
and employers are supporting people to
do that and I think that's very very
welcome there are certain work settings
so you may be in the manufacturing
sector indeed the construction sector
where it is not possible to work from
home and you have to go in and what we
have said is that in those circumstances
people can go into work however it's
also incumbent on employers to make sure
that they're following the public health
and guidance in terms of working safely
in the workplace
and certainly the conversations that I
have had with employees with employer
organizations I know that is what
they're doing they're adapting and
that's what I mean about the fact that
you know where there is a work setting
and people and those workplaces are open
and people are going to work we have to
adapt the way that we are working so we
do that in a safe way and keeping
employees safe
you're full up them well I don't quite
understand whether whether what you're
saying is that you expect people to
carry on working from home until there's
a vaccine or whether you're saying that
you expect people to go back to work
normally but just to have social
distancing know what let me clarify and
I apologize if I have not been clear on
this and the measures that have been put
in place were renewed yesterday and we
have made very clear that the message to
the public is for at least next three
weeks follow the guidance that we put
out which is you must at home it is
about particularly on HS and ultimately
about saving the lives of individuals as
well there are certain exceptions to the
staying at home and one of those is
where people who are not able to work
from home and are well and have to go
into work setting can go into work but
what has been very clear right from the
start and all the discussions I've had
with individual sectors with business
representative organisations and
individual businesses is to emphasize
that people must be following the public
health England guidance in terms of safe
working and that is I think apps you
vital that happens and I know from my
conversations that actually employers
are responding very well to that and
working together to make sure they keep
their employees safe thank you very much
for that Gordon I think we now move to
the Daily Mail and Dan Martin dan thank
you the government has talked about
easing a lot down in some areas and
strengthening in others could you
possibly give us more details about
where the lockdown could be strengthens
are we talking about different sectors
or different demographic groups but well
again I think it's very important at
this point not to muddy the waters with
with talking about an end to the current
measures we are very very clear and the
front sector was very clear yesterday
that the current measures will continue
for at least three weeks we would
require people to follow that and at the
end of that process we will be guided by
the scientific advice but we've also
said that very clearly and I said that
in my statement at the start is that
there are five tests that will have to
be met before we can
look at easing the current measures and
those five tests again are based on the
advice that we're getting but apparently
I don't know whether you wanted to
comment on this point well I think
you're absolutely right the key thing we
need to focus on now is maintaining
these measures to drive this R and the
numbers right down that's what we must
do in terms of what happens after that I
think there are a number of options and
you can see what's happening in in other
countries as to how they're approaching
this as to how you might think about
which measures to release first and how
to do that across a range of
possibilities I think it's too early to
be talking about that I think we need to
be concentrating on getting numbers down
and making sure that the extraordinary
efforts that have been made to get us to
where we are today which is now with an
R we think below one in the community
continue to drive that down further and
get these numbers down dan you want to
come back well I can't just ask about
face masks Sadiq Khan was saying today
they'd like to see them compulsory on
public transport is that something
you're considering and are you confident
they'll be enough masks if you decide to
do that well I might ask Patrick to
comment on that but just to say is that
the Phe guidance currently is that
master should be used in a NHS or or
social care setting clearly there is a
review that sage is carrying out and of
course they will make recommendations
that we will take those on but we're
looking at it now I mean the evidence is
quite variable around mast it's not easy
to really get a firm position on some of
it and there aren't very good trials of
mast we're looking at the evidence now
we looked at it this week twice we're
gonna look at it again on Tuesday and
hope to be able to make some advice
around whether any changes are needed
almost at the moment we're entirely in
line with the w-h-o recommendations the
difference between this disease and
others is the pre symptomatic and
asymptomatic spread which adds an added
complexity to thinking about where mast
may or may not fit into this but one
thing that's clear and I think the chief
medical officer has been crystal clear
about this it's absolutely crucial that
they've master available
in hospitals and in other settings which
are a high risk of transmission and
that's where the evidence is very strong
that they do work great Dan thank you
very much for that the next question is
from left foot forward
Joshua Mortimer Joshua thanks Thank You
Secretary of State as you know what care
workers and NHS staff are putting their
lives on the line each and every day to
get us through this crisis
was it a mistake for your government to
brand those people as low-skilled labor
and to the medics if I may thousands of
staff working in the NHS and the care
sector only have access to the 96 pounds
a week statutory sick pay many of those
workers can't afford to take time off
when they have symptoms and feel
pressurized to come into work do you
recognize this as a threat to public
health Joshua thank you for that look
can I just say that I want to pay
tribute and I think you will find that
actually one in government is absolute
out on this we want to pay tribute to
the selfless work that is going on
across the NHS across the social care
sector the way actually the whole
country is coming together to deal with
this particular issue we need to make
sure that we provide support to those
who are supporting us and that's why
you've seen the work that has been going
on in terms of testing in terms of
making sure that PPE gets the frontline
and we will continue to do that so yeah
I want to be very clear on this is that
the the NHS NHS workers are our apps you
vital to us we support them because they
support us and I'm very grateful for
absolutely everything that they do and
if one did you want to thank you say so
Josh they and the frontline are the
health heroes in this and it's very
important that our guidance has always
been very clear on this if you're not
well you shouldn't work I understand
what you're saying about people who feel
they have to for various economic
reasons but it's really not in their
interest it may delay their recovery and
it may put those around them at risk as
well and therefore it's very important
also that they do get the equipment they
need and that they accept testing
particularly if there
feeling unwell there is now as we've
said more capacity for testing then is
being used and the frontline are the
priority for that so that is what I
would like to see is that they accept
that Josh do you want to come back
yes actually state if I may I mean you
said that you you value the work of NHS
and care workers but you know many care
workers are on the minimum wage I mean
would you commit today to ensuring that
they do have full pay and also 18 but
well first can I say just in terms of
testing so we've had a sixty six
thousand NHS staff and social care staff
and their families who have been through
the testing process when it comes to
making sure that support is provided
there's a whole range of support that
we've provided to individuals and
businesses particularly in terms of the
furlough schemes in terms of grants so
we will continue to provide that support
and we've also said when it comes to
strategy sick pay of course we will
support smaller businesses as well for a
two for a two-week period so there is a
a lot that I think the government has
done but I want to be absolutely R with
you Josh is that we very much value the
heroes that we have across our country
within the NHS and of course in the
social care sector as well and we will
continue to do that thank you very much
for your question Josh could I move to
the Express and star Peter madly Peter
Thank You Secretary of State's C
questions for you to start off with pass
the West Midlands have a
disproportionately high number of cases
and deaths from Coby 19 do you know why
some areas of the country been hit worse
than others and secondly some hospitals
in the West Midlands have said they were
running critically low on PPE supplies
you promised to boost supplies a meeting
this afternoon West Midlands mayor Andy
Street said regarding deliveries that
taken place over the last week what was
promised was not delivered will our
hospitals be better stopped after next
week's deliveries yeah look can I first
say that I completely understand that
you know people will be worried if there
are shortages and I'm aware of the
supply issues that are being raised
there is of course a global
the supply issue you know everyone is
trying to get access to PPE and you'll
have seen the health sector announced
some days ago a plan that we have in
terms of more manufacturing the UK and I
want to pay tribute to all of those
businesses such as Burberry and yneouws
and Yasha and others who are stepping
forward to help in that effort but just
in terms of the numbers the local
resilience forums have been getting
supplies and in the West Midlands over 2
million items have been delivered by the
LR F's in terms of PP items but your
apps you write we need to be on top of
it that is why we're working at night
and day in terms of making sure we
procure more PPE but then also expand
their manufacture here in the UK itself
so I was going to answer your question
about why certain populations if I
certain places have more cases I think
this has changed over time initially we
saw case this coming from travel and
that has changed now to a very
widespread distribution of this virus so
it has hit the cities so and we would
have expected London to be early on in
this and indeed that's what happened and
then the Midlands as well because of the
concentration of populations but there
are other factors that may also drive
this at this point because as Sir
Patrick has said community transmission
is now beginning to decrease so we would
now look to where care homes are or
indeed whether there are whether there
is transmission within the healthcare
system itself and that's something
that's been very closely watched every
day as to where these hotspots in a
sense are I don't think we have yet seen
the end of this particular phase which
is why it's so important that we
continue with the advice on people
taking this and social distancing
because I would expect to see this in
other parts of the country as well are
the Midlands we would have expected
after London because of the population
nature there and the density great Peter
did you want to come back
can I just ask user secretary of states
a different question we've seen
forecasts of the damage that coronavirus
is going to do to the UK economy bear in
mind that the Treasury's coffers are
being emptied out will continue to be so
for seeable future why are you
proceeding with HS 2 which are the
conservative estimates it's going to
cost more than 100 billion pounds would
it not be prudent to at least suspend
work on the project while the country
tries to get back on its feet well Peter
I think firstly I want to pay tribute to
the businesses that are working that are
carrying on people who are working from
home those who are getting into work
settings where they can't work from home
and I think it's really important we do
everything we can to keep the economy
going but you're right there is a major
impact on our economy there's a major
impact globally as well as a result of
this particular pandemic and that is why
we've put in place he's unprecedented
schemes and you've heard as I said the
Chancellor announced a extending the
furlough scheme by another month and the
reason that we have done this is so that
when we come out the other side
businesses are ready the employees are
in place and they can absolutely bounce
back and that's vital and you know you
talk about the construction sector the
manufacturing sector I think it's
important that we support that and we
continue where people are able to work
safely to do so as I said you know for
me I think it's vital that we keep the
economy going where we can but again
this is not a trade off at the end of
the day people understand that the
reason that we are asking that the
follow the measures we have and the
reason that we have extended these
measures is about saving lives and by
protecting lives we ultimately also
protect businesses and jobs thank you
very much for all the questions and
marriages end by saying that I know it
is very difficult for families for
individuals and we are asking people to
make sacrifices but ultimately this is
about people's individual safety and I
want to thank everyone for what they're
doing so please continue to follow the
very clear advice
the government has set out which is stay
at home protect the NHS because
ultimately this is about saving your
life and the life of someone you live a
love see the headlines as they happen
and watch BBC news live in the app and
get the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news